Welcome back.
We've just implemented Prevent and append, and it should be clear to you why that is an oh one operation
for both of these.
We didn't really have to loop through anything.
We just had a reference to the tail and the head.
And we reassign some values.
Nice and easy.
But now comes the hard part.
What about these ones?
What about lookups, traversal, reversals, inserts, deletes?
I think we should code those as well to fully understand how length lists work.
This exercise is going to be a little bit tougher.
But I'm going to give you a heads up that there's going to be some looping involved.
We want to create a insert method, and this insert method is going to have an index and a value parameter
because we're going to want to be able to say insert at this location, this value into the list.
For example, if I wanted to say my link to list dot insert.
And let's say I wanted to insert an index of to the value 99.
Well.
That would mean that if we go back to our example, index of two would mean 012.
Right here, I want to insert 99 and have that 0.25.
How would we go about doing that?
I want to warn you, this can get a little tricky, and the best way to really think about it is to
grab a piece of paper and a pen and draw out the steps that you should do.
A good way to practice this and make sure you get it right is to use the visual go website and practice
inserting and see what happens when you do index of two, let's say 99, I hit go.
See what happens here.
You're going to have to code that action.
Did you get that?
Play around with this as you try and code the insert function.
Like I said, a little hint that there's going to be some looping in VoLTE.
You saw that in the demonstration or in the animation.
There was some sort of traversal.
So we're going to have to do some sort of traversal to find the index.
And I also just want to code a quick print list function.
So that instead of using this way of printing our list, which as it gets deeper and deeper, it gets
harder and harder to understand, I'm going to just create a print list function that you should have
access to to make sure that your insert method is working.
And this print list is simply going to just list our link list.
But instead of having this ugly printout, I'm just going to print it out in an array.
So this is just going to be printed out in an array.
All we're going to do is say, all right.
And this is going to be an empty array.
We'll have a current.
Node.
Variable that will have this head.
So the first item in the list and all we going to do is do a wild loop.
Remember, this is similar to a for loop.
We're looping, but instead we're saying while this is happening, while a condition is happening,
run the below commands.
So I'm going to say while current node doesn't equal to null.
As long as there is a current node and we're not pointing to a null terminator.
In that case, just simply add to the array array to push the current node value.
That's it.
We don't care about the pointers or anything.
We just want to push to the array, the value.
And we want to then update the current node to equal current node dot next.
So we're going to keep going, keep going, keep going until the current node is going to be null,
at which case we're going to stop.
Again.
While loops are really, really good, if we don't really know the length of our link list or we just
want to do something while a condition is met.
So we can just simply return the array here.
Let's see how that would work.
If I do and I'm going to comment out the insert here because we're not going to do that yet.
I'm going to just say my linked list, dot print list.
If I run this, there's our list.
So using the parentless command to check your work, see if you can create this method.
Good luck and I'll see you in The Solution video.